[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Here's an easy one.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] We're
starting to get a little closer to useful
things.
Write a function twice that
takes a binary function and
returns a urnary function that passes its
argument to the binary function twice.
So, twice add is double and
twice mul is square, okay?
>> Douglas Crockford: And
twice subtract would be zero and
twice divide would be one.
>> Douglas Crockford: Does
anyone need more time?
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
so here we go.
Function twice takes a binary function and
returns a function that takes an argument,
and returns the result of calling
the binary with that argument twice.
Who got this one?
Outstanding, that's really good.
Anybody struggle with this one?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] But
you got it that's great.
Any other discussion about
this one before we go on?
All right then here we go.
Write a function composeu that
takes two unary functions and
returns a unary function
that calls them both.
So here we've got composeu,
we pass it double and square.
And past result of that three and
that should be 36.
>> Speaker 4: I have a question.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: In real life, it seems like
the advantage of the solution of this is
the runtime result with the value could
be a string of numbers or something.
Because you have the same function.
Do you use that a lot in practice?
>> Douglas Crockford: Generally not.
I'm pretty strict on what's going to be
a number and what's going to be a string.
>> Speaker 4: So
when you write your functions,
it's usually going to be one or the other?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
Yeah, JavaScript
was created around a time
when there was a fashion in
scripting languages to try to ignore the
difference between numbers and strings.
And I think we've learned
that that was a bad idea.
So JavaScript sort of stuck in
the transitioning between those two ideas.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE] versus a-
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah exactly.
Basic I think actually got it right, and
there are some people who thought
Basic's being too strict.
We can relax it.
It turned out relaxing it like HyperCard,
for example relaxed it.
And it actually introduced
a lot of problems doing that.
Because it creates an equivalence of
the two types in the programmer's head.
But the two types are not
always equivalent, and so
there's some places
where you get confused.
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
anybody need more time?
Okay, so here we go,
composeu takes two functions, f and g and
returns a function that takes an a and
returns
result of f on that result and
g on that result.
So who got this one?
Fantastic, who struggled with this one?
>> Douglas Crockford: So is there anybody
who's not getting these who needs some
advice or direction or focus,
job counseling, anything?
All right, should we move on?
Okay, write a function composeb
that takes two binary functions and
returns a function that calls them both.
So here we have composeb taking add and
mul which returns the function that
takes 2, 3 and 5 and returns 25.
>> Douglas Crockford: Does
anyone need more time?
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
here we go.
Composeb takes two functions, f and g, and
returns a function that takes a, b, and c,
and returns f(a,
b), passing that to g with c.
Who got this one?
>> Douglas Crockford: Very good.
Any comment about it?
>> Douglas Crockford: So,
the thing was starting to do now is
you compose functions, making
functions out of existing functions.
So, you can start to see how you
can take primitive things and
start to build them up to
make complicated things.